Let's look at our HTML again,
we're setting this P property here and
these are the individual bars.
So we wanna set the height of each
of these based on this property.
Let's go to our CSS.
This is This is the CSS code that
applies to each of those bars.
And it's actually just setting
the height depending on the P value.
It's just that we don't actually
need to do any math with it
because it's already set in percentages.
So now let's see.
What customization options
do we want to expose?
We want to expose a bar color property so
let's go here and
see where is the color
specified is specified here.
So let's instead do bar color and
use deep pink as a fullback.
And now if we want,
we could give that a different color here.
And I'm using inline styles for
demonstration purposes but
you could obviously set the bar color
property anywhere else in your CSS.
You might have a bar chart part of your
CSS that actually sets up the code for
the bar charts.
And then anywhere else on your website
that specifies a bar chart could use these
properties that we've exposed
this kind of styling API.
Let's see what other customization
we wanted to open up.
A bar width.
Again, this is rather simple.
We can just go here and
replace the fixed value
we had with Var function
reading bar width and
specifying a fallback
that is the value we had.
And let's make sure this works.
Yeah, gold is invalid there.
But we could,
if we use an actual length, it works.
Now let's see, bar spacing.
So where is the spacing set in two places?
There is the gap that sets the spacing
between two flexbox items or
two grid items, it works for both.
And there's also the padding that sets the
spacing, From between the first bar and
the left side and the last bar and
the right side of the graph,
which could be different but
here we've decided to make it the same.
So, we go here again, bar spacing.
And we'll use the same fullback and
we're going to go here again.
Notice that we've repeated the fallback
value because the point we're
making here is different but
we've seen how you could duplicate this.
Although remember trying to go to towards
too much dry code can also be a problem.
Most people today believe that repeating
a value twice is okay more than that, and
you need to figure out ways
to remove the duplication.
And we also have band count.
So how are the bands
created we have this linear
gradient here and with two color stops so
each of these gradients creates
both colors of the bands.
So each of these gradients
creates two bands.
Let's wrap this a little bit.
And it's actually the background size
that controls how many bands we have,
right now it's 20% which means we get five
repetitions, which means we get 10 bands.
If it was 10%, we would get 20 bands.
So we could rewrite this.
Like that, and actually,
Which makes it more clear
how many bonds we have
like we could experiment a little bit yep.
And we could go here and
say bond count and defaulted to 10.
So that should work.
Let's try it out like
we did the other ones,
bond count 10 and
let's change it a bit yep.
See that works fine.
So, I have a question for you.
You might have noticed that a lot of
these were actually fairly simple.
Like the, the bar color one, for
example, that we used the bar width or
the bar color.
This we're just setting one property.
So why don't we want someone to style
a component, set them directly and
style these divs directly why would we
use custom properties there at all.
Like okay in the bar spacing declarations
economic sense it's setting two
properties at once.
There is some sort of benefit or
in the band count case, okay?
It's a it's a sort of bigger
expression it's a bit harder to
figure out by yourself
without some thinking.
It does provide a higher
level of abstraction but for
things like bar color and bar width why,
what benefit does it give us?
So the benefit again is encapsulation.
It means it exposes the styling hooks and
I can change my CSS entirely and
whoever is styling our component
doesn't have to change anything.
Also, notice that both of these properties
are actually set on the divs inside
the component by exposing
these custom properties.
It means that the entire component
can be styled by just applying
properties on the component itself,
not on the divs inside it.
We don't need to know anything
about its internal structure we can
use whatever elements we want inside and
it will still work.
So even though there is not a benefit
In terms of actual amount of code.
There is a big win in
terms of maintainability.
Especially when other people
are styling our components but
even when it's just us in
a different place of the CSS or
a different CSS file or
different places on the website.